[DOCS-6867] Restructure OTel Collector Datadog Exporter docs (#21002)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/opentelemetry/collector_exporter/_index.md

{{< img src="metrics/otel/datadog_exporter.png" alt="Application Instrumented Library, Cloud Integrations, and Other Monitoring Solutions (for example Prometheus) -> Datadog Exporter inside OpenTelemetry Collector -> Datadog" style="width:100%;">}}

## Setting up the OpenTelemetry Collector with the Datadog Exporter

To run the OpenTelemetry Collector along with the Datadog Exporter, download the latest release of the [OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib distribution][3]. 

### Out-of-the-box Datadog Exporter configuration

In the `exporter/datadogexporter` folder is a working example of an out-of-the-box configuration for Datadog Exporter. See the full configuration example file, [`ootb-ec2.yaml`][4]. Configure each of the following components to suit your needs:

{{< whatsnext desc="Exporter components" >}}

>     {{< nextlink href="/opentelemetry/collector_exporter/hostname_tagging/" >}}Hostname and tags{{< /nextlink >}}

Author: ```suggestion
    {{< nextlink href="/opentelemetry/collector_exporter/hostname_tagging/" >}}Hostname and Tags{{< /nextlink >}}
```

    {{< nextlink href="/opentelemetry/collector_exporter/log_collection/" >}}Log Collection{{< /nextlink >}}
    {{< nextlink href="/opentelemetry/collector_exporter/collector_health_metrics/" >}}Collector Health Metrics{{< /nextlink >}}
    {{< nextlink href="/opentelemetry/collector_exporter/trace_metrics/" >}}Trace Metrics{{< /nextlink >}}
    {{< nextlink href="/opentelemetry/collector_exporter/collector_batch_memory/" >}}Collector Batch and Memory Settings{{< /nextlink >}}
{{< /whatsnext >}}

## Running the collector

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "On a host" %}}

Run the collector, specifying the configuration file using the `--config` parameter:

```
otelcontribcol_linux_amd64 --config collector.yaml
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Docker (localhost)" %}}
To run the OpenTelemetry Collector as a Docker image and receive traces from the same host:

1. Choose a published Docker image such as [`otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib`][1].

2. Determine which ports to open on your container so that OpenTelemetry traces are sent to the OpenTelemetry Collector. By default, traces are sent over gRPC on port 4317. If you don't use gRPC, use port 4318.

> 3. Run the container and expose the necessary port, using the previously defined `collector.yaml` file. For example, considering you are using port 4317:

Author: ```suggestion
3. Run the container and expose the necessary port, using the `collector.yaml` file. For example, if you are using port 4317:
```

   ```
   $ docker run \
       -p 4317:4317 \
       --hostname $(hostname) \
       -v $(pwd)/otel_collector_config.yaml:/etc/otelcol-contrib/config.yaml \
       otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib
   ```

[1]: https://hub.docker.com/r/otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tags
{{% /tab %}}

> {{% tab "Docker (other containers)" %}}

Reviewer: where does configuration go? i see an `otel_collector_config.yaml` and a `config.yaml` in step 2, is that related? if so, which one/both?

Reviewer 2: Are you referring to `-v $(pwd)/otel_collector_config.yaml:/etc/otelcol-contrib/config.yaml` ? If so, this is to mount volumes, so the `otel_collector_config.yaml` on the machine will be available in the container at this path: `/etc/otelcol-contrib/config.yaml`.

Note especially some [essential configuration options from the example][2], which ensure the essential ports of the DaemonSet are exposed and accessible to your application:

```yaml
# ...
        ports:
        - containerPort: 4318 # default port for OpenTelemetry HTTP receiver.
          hostPort: 4318
        - containerPort: 4317 # default port for OpenTelemetry gRPC receiver.
          hostPort: 4317
        - containerPort: 8888  # Default endpoint for querying Collector observability metrics.
# ...
```

If you do not need both the standard HTTP and gRPC ports for your application, it is fine to remove them.

[1]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/2c32722/exporter/datadogexporter/examples/k8s-chart
[2]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/2c32722/exporter/datadogexporter/examples/k8s-chart/daemonset.yaml#L41-L46

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Kubernetes (Gateway)" %}}

> To deploy the OpenTelemetry Collector and Datadog Exporter in a Kubernetes Gateway deployment, use this [full example of configuring the OpenTelemetry Collector using the Datadog Exporter as a DaemonSet][1], including the application configuration example.

Reviewer: is this meant to link to the same examples as for Kubernetes DaemonSet? if so, then DaemonSet and Gateway have exactly the same instructions. is that intentional?
